#summary The CFD as a new engineering tool

= Description =

We are in a time where computing is evolving in an amazing way, opening new paths for large numerical calculations in various engineering and physical problems (and other practical problems). 
So far the man developed the Calculus as an important tool, we had the possibility to model lots of natural observations into complex sets of formulas and tools, but some of these problems, in result of it's complexity (the amount of abstraction and calculation needed) were unable to be solved. 
With the advent of computing, we are able to bypass such issues, with far simpler algorithms that can give us a good solution (if not a perfect one) for these problems. 
So then, we picked up a very complex problem, the Fluid Dynamics, in order to see how far we can get using the available tools (open source ones) in the market, aiming to spread knowledge (we are in a third world country, where one of the main obstacles is lack of technology/information), experience and a low-cost supercomputer know-how (again, we are in a third world country, so creativity is very useful to build complex stuff when we lack resources).
CFD can be applied in a wide variety of industrial/manufacturing projects, in a way of reducing production costs (avoiding the expensive air-tunnels), or even predicting complex systems, like Petroleum extraction, Rocket development or Aircraft simulations.

= Resources/Sponsors =

We are counting on various resources, that could be brought to us by our sponsors:
  * *IBM* - the one that provided the cash for buying equipment (our PS3 Cell based computer sets) 
  * *ITA* - part of the institute's infrastructure is being used 
 
= Tools =

We plain to use the Playstation 3 consoles as a Cell based computer system, since it's able to run GNU/Linux OS, as well as clustering libraries in order to architect the cluster it self.
The Cell processor deliver us an extreme performance system that can be compared to a supercomputer's performance, enabling us to make a large amount of calculations needed.
One of the main objectives of the project is to prove that Playstation 3 can be thought as an inexpensive way of building a supercomputer, and it can be used in various scientific applications.
Checkout how the project evolves in order to see which languages/libraries are being used, why they are being used, and how.